Ashok Gangadean is a very busy man.
He's taught philosophy at Haverford College for 38 years.
He's co-chair of the World Wisdom Council, a television host
and creator of a profound communication tool.
He says that we do not have the luxury
of communicating with each other through our own
narrow and heavily tinted filters anymore
if we're going to turn the degradation of our planet around.
In response to this challenge,
he's developed a method of communication called
deep dialogue, which helps individuals
as well as world governments see through the lens
of a total stranger with differing views
to identify our common desires
and create genuine communication and compassion.
Let's begin by talking about
the World Wisdom Council first,
and then the event that you've taken part in,
which is a very elite group of minds from around the world.
Ph.Ds in every imaginable subject coming together
in the spirit of finding a global unification
of spirit and mind so we can start really looking at
some of the problems.
How did this all come together?
Well, I think the universe wants it to happen,
first of all.
I mean we've reached a moment in our evolution
in the 21st century where the globalization of
worlds coming together has really called us
and compressed us into a moment
where we really need to hold a space
for global wisdom.
Many people have been feeling that need for a long time,
and so an earlier organization that is still going on
that was partner to this
is working with leaders like Robert Muller from the UN
and Karan Singh, a high-level statesman from India,
Ewert Cousins, a really premiere, senior theologian
from Fordham who has got 24 volumes of world spirituality
bringing religions together,
and I got together to form a world commission
on global consciousness and spirituality.
And what's a world commission on spirituality?
In the UN, there have been all kinds of commissions
to look at all kinds of problems,
but several of us felt that the most important factor
of the human condition, consciousness, and where we are,
there was no organization to help bring to the focus
of the leadership of the world, and the grassroots,
that consciousness matters.
How we use are mind is the ultimate technology.
And all of our great wisdom teachers
across the borders of the planet for centuries
have been trying to teach us that
when you're in the ego way of thinking,
you have an ego-mental world,
a divided fractured world.
And what we're seeing today
exemplifies the ego-based world.
Yes, that's right.
Even though our great teachers,
whether it's in the Gita, or in Buddha's teaching,
or in the Judaic founding of the Judaic religion,
or Jesus, or Mohammed, just to mention a few,
Lao Tzu in the Chinese, these are all great, gifted teachers
that were seeing that human evolution doesn't get stuck
in the ego way of separating the thinker from the object.
Well now this is very interesting
if I can just interject something,
because you've been a professor of philosophy
for a very long time.
Logic and ego oftentimes have accompanied
that particular subject.
And so how did you find your own way
from really basing your thoughts more in the field of logic
into spirituality and bridge this,
going back into what you were just saying?
Well yes, so that story is,
I'm trained as a logician in the European tradition,
before I had any acquaintance with Eastern thought,
even though my ancestry comes from India,
I was born in Trinidad and grew up in Jamaica
in New York City,
so I've really grown up in the West,
and trained at Brandeis University,
and my doctorate was in understanding
the evolution of logic from Aristotle, Plato,
all the way through to Bertrand Russell,
Wittgenstein, and Frege in the modern analytic tradition.
I was trying to find a coherent logic,
and looking at the evolution of logic
in the European tradition,
and I found that it was really split between
the Aristotelian lens that shaped our tradition,
European tradition for millenia into the 20th century,
and the new logic of mathematical orientation,
of Russell, Wittgenstein, and Frege
that just closed the door on the classical logic I've noted
and opened up a new mathematical model.
I saw them both, and they both had power,
they repelled each other, and they both had validity.
So my question as a young philosopher was
if logic is a science of reason, of human intelligence,
and it's polarized, what does that tell us
about human intelligence and the capacity to cohere
and to connect the dots and see unity
in our understanding?
So I felt that was a deep crisis in human reason.
And that, fast forward is,
I went to India after arriving at Haverford College
as an analytic logician teaching this work
and just as a cultural, spiritual journey to roots,
I started studying Indian philosophy and music
when I was there in University of Poona
lecturing on my own work on Western logic.
And I was really blown away, when after
the first serious encounter with Indian philosophy,
began to see that meditative thinking,
meditative awareness begins to become aware
of how we use our mind.
And there's such a thing as ego-minding,
using the ego method, it's almost like a mental program
where the thinker separates himself, herself from the object
so you are someone, Regina, that I could look at
and talk about and that I begin to put information
about who you are and your identity as an object.
We do this with everything including ourselves.
And we don't become aware that we're using an ego lens.
Separation by virtue of identity.
Exactly right.
Because when I separate myself as a thinker
from what I think about,
there is an I and not I,
and the object that I think about is a not I,
so there's already a separation between I and not I.
When you go into the box or the screen of your awareness,
you begin to also separate information
between the subject and the predicate.
You know, Regina is a woman, she is American,
TV journalist, all these things,
and you get the information and we build our identities
in the box.
And all of those pieces of information...
Create separation.
That's right, space, and time, and mind, and matter,
and cause, all of them.
And you're not aware that that level of thinking
packages information and separates them
and tries to put them together,
alleging a unity, but they're not.
And then you get to the macro lens,
which is them against us, them again us.
Exactly, that's right.
Well then you see that's exactly right,
because if I'm in, say, a Christian lens,
and I see the world through Christian eyes,
that's a worldview.
If I see through Hindu eyes, that's another worldview.
If I see through Native American Lakota, that's different.
If I see from a scientific perspective, right,
if I see pro-choice, pro-life.
Genesis, Big Bang.
These are all different lenses.
And we are not taught how to recognize the lenses,
how to step back and morph our eyes
into multiple alternative lenses.
And that really, is what I've been working on
for over three decades.
To try and understand the dynamics of shifting awareness
and changing our lenses.
So if I'm raising the Judeo-Christian lens of seeing reality
if I interpret all reality through my lens,
and not aware of it,
then I'm in a way doing violence to another
if you are a Muslim, or if you are a Buddhist, or Hindu,
or a scientist, I won't be able to see
the world the way you see it.
And we have the capacity to step back from our lens
and check out the lenses,
and change our mental ecology.
We have the capacity,
but very few of us seem to be
able to move beyond the lenses we were conditioned to.
Exactly right.
So now what do we do?
We're in trouble. The planet is in trouble.
There is almost no corner of the Earth
There's no real dialogue.
...that doesn't have extreme challenges,
so we're so separate...
That's right.
Through politics, through culture,
through religion.
What are you and the people that are working in this
incredible council doing?
So you set the stage well because,
so the World Commission on Global Consciousness
is recognizing that when we step back
from our local lens,
and enter a global perspective, open the global lens,
it is a deeper dimension of awareness,
which all of our great teachers are trying to teach us
how to open the global mind, the global lens,
which means bringing different worlds and perspectives
together in a unified understanding.
So although I may be Christian,
I can really understand the Buddhist perspective,
and the Hindu perspective at the same time.
I can dance in my intelligence
to understand them.
You can.
But for the average person, what is the hook
that's going to make a person open up
and care enough, or be curious enough even,
to begin wanting to look through a different lens?
I think events like 9/11,
which is a real clash of civilization, worldviews.
We're living in this all the time.
Relationships, where with your spouse,
male-female, we have different perspectives often.
In our political space, I'm pro-choice, you're pro-life,
there's some explosion taking place.
In every aspect, and even an every day American,
she may be Christian, so that's one worldview,
I have one lens.
But she's also a scientist,
and she believes in the Big Bang.
That's another lens.
She's a civic American,
and she believes in the secular virtues
of American democracy.
Keep your religion out of politics, that's another lens.
And so forth, and she may be seeing a therapist
to try and sort all of this out.
Right, or on Prozac.
Right, exactly. Or both.
And see, the therapist may be a Jungian,
teaching her that she's got a male and female
anima and animus, it'll drive you nuts.
So she takes yoga to try and chill out,
and that's still another world.
So we have multiple lenses.
And the me as a Christian, and the me as a scientist,
and the me as a civic American,
they're different eyes.
So I begin to become in pieces.
So we're fragmented inside to begin with.
Exactly right.
So it's not just the West against the Muslim world,
or the West against the East or anything.
It's right here on our indigenous soil,
on American civic space.
We have multiple perspectives.
And it's right here in our own bodies
in our own personal universes.
Exactly.
And that packaging, when I see my body as one reality,
and my consciousness as another,
there's a mind-body split.
And my consciousness is telling me one thing,
and I don't listen to my body,
and so there's this wrenching split
and my health begins to be damaged.
I'm under great stress.
I'm living in ego time,
and ego time divides past, present, and future.
I'm plagued by wounds and hurts of my 30 years,
so I'm trapped in the past.
I can't show up now.
I'm worried about my mortgage and my future,
and I'm trapped in the future,
and I can't live now.
And all of the teachers say, how do you live now?
You've got to open the lens and go to a deeper spacetime.
A deeper time that has a boundless now.
The power of now.
So for example, all of Hindu thought is how to be here now.
How to truly open up your mind and your body in unity
and heal yourself.
Which is interesting
because it seems as though, certainly Western culture,
and now probably Eastern culture to a large extent as well,
has a great fear of letting go of the planning
and projection into the future
for fear that the outcome will not turn out as planned.
That's right. There's a lot of fear about...
Now how that we have an addiction to it,
we have a fear around everything having to do with
personal security, so how do we begin shifting
on the simplest level away from taking our mind off of
gotta get that done before tomorrow,
can't afford to lose that contract, or whatever,
into being in the now?
How would that look? How do you teach this?
Well I think it's been taught by many different traditions
and so in the Zen tradition, Zen is all about
through meditative awareness, slowing oneself down,
and in a way finding a way to step back from the ego lens
that really compresses you into this stressful way of being
and fragments and separates,
and starts to bring you into a more unified space.
Because the basic insight is that reality
is a connected, interconnected, deep, unified space.
And when our minding, the way we use our mind,
is also in sync with that, then we are attuned.
Then we are in harmony.
So in yoga for example, if you practice yoga,
the first thing you do is breath, follow your breath.
And if you begin to follow as a basic principle
of beginning to sink into your body mindfully,
then it's a way of a technology helping you
to arrive in the now.
And that now is so expansive,
it's Om, it's infinite now,
that it incorporates the past and the present and the future
into presence.
Presence.
Not present, but presence.
So you have presence of mind,
and you enter into the now in that expanded way.
Let's take the woman you were talking about,
she's a scientist, she's a Christian,
she's a secular, civic citizen,
and she practices yoga, she's going to her therapist,
and she's on Prozac. (laughs)
Let's take her...
Pretty typical. (laughs)
(laughs) Pretty typical.
Let's take this woman, and look at,
from a micro point of view,
how you begin the transformative process,
and then we're going to take it out into what you're doing
in this global picture.
Where do we begin, how would you take a person like that
and begin guiding or coaching this person through
to their personal expansion into presence?
Great question, and that's really,
my Global Dialogue Institute,
Global Dialogue is the deepest form of dialogue,
that allows us to take different worldviews or lenses,
and find the common ground across them
without reducing their diversity.
And the key to that is realizing,
and what our great teachers saw,
that at the deepest level, whatever name you use,
whether you call it Tao, Om, Sunyata, Yaweh, Allah,
nature, spirit...
The name for the unifying force,
by whatever language or dialect you use,
is a common unifying force,
is seen to be boundless, and the source of all,
and infinite, and if you think about it,
it's a very simple point.
There can't be two.
Because if there were two, it wouldn't be infinite.
It would be bounded by the other.
So it's all encompassing.
And it seems to thrive,
even to a biological level, on cooperation.
Exactly right.
Now see that's a key point,
because if there is an infinite unifying force,
whether you call it Om, or Logos, or Yaweh,
then that infinite force, if you begin to get into
its technology and logic,
this is what all our great teachers were showing,
everything is interconnected,
and there's everything, meaning there's diversity.
So there's boundless diversity in the unity.
So the rhythm of that field is that the unified field
is a boundless expanse of boundless possibilities.
So you would be a unique point, a power point,
and center of that infinite field.
I would be another.
Each person has a sacred spot.
Each tree, each pebble, each grain of sand.
Every item in that field reflects the entire field.
So when you take something
and put it into that field that is egocentric by nature,
and separatist by nature, then what happens?
You violate that. You break it.
If you can imagine yourself in that interconnected space,
I can speak my name in two ways.
In the ego voice, where I separate myself off,
and I've broken the circuits,
and separate myself as a separate thing,
and I'll lose my connectivity with you,
with nature, with everything else,
and the fallout begins to be that separation
and breakdown, fragmentation, alienation.
Whereas if I can now step back and reverse that
and go into the integral,
and begin to feel the interconnected Ashok,
I'm connected with my breath...
And feel our similarities.
That's right, because then in that space,
and by the way, just to interject,
one thing I saw over the years in my research and journey
was we needed to name when we were in the ego lens
or the ego voice, as a technology.
So just to mark it, I helped my students,
for example, see that when you're speaking
from the ego voice, mark it with a single bracket marker.
Because that reminds you I'm speaking ego language.
So when I say Ashok, my name, or use your name,
I'm putting you in the ego space.
And now doctor. Then you add doctor.
That's right.
And that's part of the identity at hand.
Exactly right.
Whereas when you go into the deeper space,
the language works at a profound way of interconnectivity.
The great teachers call it non-duo or duo,
and I mark that with double brackets, double parentheses,
to say when you're speaking, when Jesus is saying
"I am the way, the truth, and the light,"
he's speaking the Logos, he's speaking this...
When Krishna speaks, when Buddha speaks,
when Abraham is in dialogue with God,
and the question of sacrificing Isaac, for example,
and putting God first, he's struggling
between this and that.
So all of our great teachers and models
were showing us, leave this,
this disconnects, and leads to violence,
and breakdown, and fragmentation within.
So how do you introduce yourself
in double brackets?
Well, getting back to your question,
this was just an aside.
This woman exemplar we're talking about,
let's say that she is struggling with
how do I connect my Christianity,
which tells me to love God in every moment
and every breath in my life, and love my other,
for my politics, because we have politics facing my other.
I may be Republican, I'm facing a Democrat,
you know, I'm facing the other, my opponent.
Jesus says love your other as yourself.
How do I do that?
And besides, how do I keep my religion
out of my politics?
I don't know how to do that.
So we live in a tense situation.
Or you might say, my Christianity tells me life is sacred,
so I'm pro-life.
But my civic, democratic ways believe in freedom of choice,
and there I feel, really, pro-choice is important.
We die for choice. It's freedom.
And I'm conflicted.
Which am I, one or the other?
Is it Big Bang that started, or Genesis?
So whenever I'm facing,
when I reach a point of maturity
in my journey of polarity
and realize these fragmentations are killing me,
they're squeezing me.
I'm longing to find common ground if possible.
And that's where deep dialogue skills become important.
What is that, how does that work?
Well if I could step back from privileging
the pro-choice as the only way,
and begin to say, what is that pro-life person saying?
What am I saying?
And you begin to enter into that mental ecology,
or that lens and try it out,
and you begin to say, wow, life is sacred,
and I can see that logic.
But choice is sacred.
But you know what, they're connected.
Well something happens when you go into deep dialogue,
that you begin to touch the deeper Logos
that all of our different lenses come out of.
That's the key.
The deeper Logos, whether you call it Om, Yaweh, Christ,
whatever, is the interconnected space where
our intelligence finds connectivity,
and that's when you find the link.
So I may be Christian, and I know Jesus is the way,
and I know for someone who follows Krishna,
Krishna is the way,
but I can go into the Krishna lens
and see in that Hindu perspective,
a very different mental ecology,
and to understand in its terms how it does
recognize Krishna as the incarnation of the Om,
and the yoga technology.
When I begin to make the transitions,
which is what dialogue is,
monologue is when I stand firm in my lens no matter what,
and take the world and yank it through my lens
no matter what, and violate the other through my lens.
That's a kind of fundamentalism.
I call it egomentalism.
Egomentalism, by whatever faith,
scientists can do it, when they see the world
only from the scientific lens,
so that if there's medicine, I'm a physician,
I'm trained as a medical person,
and I'm hearing about accupuncture
and I say that's nonsense, it doesn't fit science.
It's the same problem.
And I'm not open to alternative modes of healing.
So if I can go and understand a whole different worldview
of accupuncture and the meridians,
and it's not the same as physiology in my other lens.
Or I go into the Aryuveda tradition of
classical ancient Hindu medicine
and understand the chakras,
it's a different physiology.
It's a different way of understanding the energies,
it's another dimension.
And if I can begin, as a healer,
to learn these different modalities and say, you know,
they don't compete, they're coming out of a common source.
And this is really the key,
if you go deep enough in your dialogue,
are you saying that you begin finding these essential
or unified truths?
Yes. Global truths.
That's global wisdom.
Now we're back to the World Commission.
So that's how you do it on a personal level.
You would begin by, let's just simplify her again,
perhaps then meditation is a way to begin opening
into these awarenesses.
That's one way, but you don't have to...
That's one way to begin to experience
the field of interconnectivity.
If you begin to practice some form of yoga, meditation,
Zen form, the many many forms of meditation.
Something quieting and detached.
It helps you to settle back from your lens
and experience the vibrations of the unified field.
So you would advise this woman,
begin with simple steps there.
Then of course, you have the deep dialogue.
And the dialogue becomes a more conscious way
to articulate, you know.
Let's say as a scientist, I begin to see now
that the frontier of my physics,
the physics of being able to see
that there's nonlocality in the universe.
We're going beyond the Einstein lens.
We're beginning to see the Butterfly Effect,
that the movement of the wings of a butterfly
in the rainforest of Brazil is affecting the tsunami,
and they're all interconnected.
Well how is that? Interconnectivity.
And the space-time continuum.
Because when you go into the deep field,
you don't chop the basic names like space, and time,
and mind, and matter.
It's mindbody. That's a primal word.
So now when I speak of mindbody,
I realize there's not a lot of split between
mind versus body.
It's one energy field,
and my consciousness affects a cellular level.
Now I can see how my intention
Intention, yes.
Can affect my biology and my physique,
and create illness or wellness,
depending on how I'm using my mind.
The mystery is solved because of connectivity.
So something begins to happen in many, many ways.
And so that is on a personal level.
Now let's go back to the global.
Does someone see just an entry point
so people can begin seeing...
No.
So the World Commission on Global Consciousness
and Spirituality is recognizing
that there's a wealth of resources and wisdom
across our traditions.
And if you can have a lens,
if you don't just look at it locally,
but you begin to open the global lens,
this deeper space,
you begin to see that that wealth of resources of wisdom
echoes profound truths, common global truths.
Like human rights.
Every human being is sacred.
Why?
Because in the interconnected field,
you and I are distinct, and yet one.
What does that mean?
It means to tend to myself is to tend to you.
What is that? Ethics.
So when Jesus would say,
when I was in prison you visited me,
when I was hungry you fed me,
the Disciples, still in the ego lens,
why did we do this?
When you tended the least of mind,
you tended to me.
What does that mean?
I and the other are connected.
Love your enemy as yourself.
What's the Buddhist version of the Dharma?
Because of interconnectivity,
you have to tend to the well being of all beings.
Why? Interconnectivity.
I cannot sever myself from you.
Ashok is Regina.
And when you realize that principle,
it opens up compassion.
What is compassion?
It's not a sentiment.
It is a mode of connectivity, deep dialogue.
And what is dialogue? The I and thou.
You are other, and I and thou.
And so when I'm in the ethics of I-Thou,
which is basic ethics, I'm in the global mind.
I'm in global consciousness.
You can't be a moral being with an ego mind,
because you objectify the other.
And when you objectify the other,
you violate the other, it's an act of violence.
So ego is a form of fragmentation and violence
to myself and to other,
and you can't have a culture of peace,
because you are fragmented within,
your relationships are fragmented,
your work with other cultures and worlds is broken.
9/11s, genocides, Holocausts,
the most devastating violence to people.
And in our everyday relationships
in the workplace and in the public place.
Right here on the home soil.
It's not just between cultures.
So that egoing is the source of violence,
and deep dialoguing is a source of compassion.
So how is this applying
in your global forum?
What are you all coming to by way of consensus,
and what are some of the ways in which
you're seeing inroads to make progress?
Now to take it to the macro level,
the World Commission on Global Consciousness,
people like Jane Goodall and Wangari Maathai,
who just won the Nobel Prize, His Holiness the Dalai Lama,
is one of our seniors, Desmond Tutu...
Gorbachev.
Gorbachev, you know, is part of the Wisdom Council.
What do they have in it?
They all realize that we are in a global age.
We need the global mind, which is global consciousness,
to be global citizens across our borders.
Why? Because we're one family, human family.
And with ecology as well, it's not just the humans
to privilege, but nature is sacred,
and ecology and other species.
Jane Goodall will remind us, tend to the other species,
they have their life that must be respected.
They have knowledge, they have wisdom.
Exactly right, that was her breakthrough.
And indigenous wisdom has seen that.
Nature is sacred, the mountains, the river, the rainforest.
When you begin to enter that global consciousness,
you realize it's a different way to be human,
and that the planet is divided between the old way
still, despite millenia of teaching to the contrary,
we're still profoundly locked in the egomental ways,
producing an egomental world
that has reached terrible crisis mode.
It's unsustainable.
And this is what the World Commission
and the World Wisdom Council recognizes,
that we're in the 21st century,
this generation has to make a mass shift in consciousness,
and finally fulfill our legacy of who we are,
or else we're not going to be sustainable.
That's what we have in common.
And the technology of doing it
is to cultivate ways of dialogue across our borders
which is embodying ethics in the workplace,
in the civic space, in our personal relationships
with one another, of not to objectify one another.
So there's a common technology.
When we become global and we dilate the global lens
and the global mind, and we can hold multiple perspectives
in this dance of dialogue, and have multiplicity,
and yet see the common truths of connectivity,
we mature as rational beings, as moral beings,
as civic beings.
That's what we're trying to cultivate,
and bring it out to a mass audience.
So the strategy is that the simplest, most powerful,
minimal condition to have that culture that's sustainable
depends upon shifting the lens of the people
from the old way that produces that fragmented world
to the integral way that begins to bring forth
a world of compassion and caring.
What are some of the more
ingenious ways that this might happen?
Because this means, in essence,
shifting media, shifting everything really.
It does.
For example, education.
We've had great, genius teachers like Maria Montessori,
that would say that the child is not an object
that you feed information into,
but a sacred being.
How do you design a classroom environment
in which the child's sacred nature is allowed to flourish
and blossom?
Not to pour information
and package that ego-mind with information,
but to allow the whole being to come forth
as an integral whole being.
That's a different educational ecology
and environment, a different classroom,
that allows the child to develop,
that's a deep dialogue classroom.
Or Rudolf Steiner, the Waldorf School.
Another version of that.
The Quakers, you know I teach in a Quaker college,
and the Quakers understood,
they were double bracket,
realizing that that's where the individual and the community
are both primal.
It's not one or the other.
Because in the individual, the I is the thou,
and so the community and the individual
are both sacred.
And to design a space, and the Quakers use,
to redesign a sacred space that is not hierarchical,
but is, we face each other,
and we speak from the spirit,
and each person ministers and has the power to do so,
and the right to do so.
These are just ways in which you can begin to see
how would this be embodied.
So in education, imagine shifting from
an educational environment that forces information
rather than transformation.
I find when I was teaching the Baghavad Gita
when I came back from India,
the way I was trained was information.
What is the logic, how do you predicate,
how do you put information,
and I was trying to teach the Gita in the box.
And I realized this is not working
because the whole point of the Gita
is to realize that there is a box
and you need to step out of it.
And if I'm putting it in the box, I'm violating the text.
So I had to redesign education
so that students can experience this journey
from the ego lens into the integral.
And to try that out experimentally,
and to listen to Krishna's voice in new ears,
and to realize that there's a move from the ego lens
to the integral, awakened, Om space, in that case,
is a fundamental educational, transformative shift
to integral education.
And so by developing the skills of deep dialogue,
so right in the Baghavad Gita, the dialogue between Krishna,
the voice of Om, and Arjuna, the ego voice,
it's all about the deep dialogue between the ego
and the awakened, dilated consciousness.
And you'll find the same thing in Buddhist thinking,
Christian thinking, Judaic dialogues
between Abraham and God, Moses and God,
all the way through.
Are there some simple concepts
where anybody can begin, anybody on this planet can begin?
Something as simple as dropping judgment of one another.
Beautiful. Exactly.
Because when you're an ego and you're always judging
according to your lens.
What is dropping judgment?
Drop that lens. Step back.
Allow space for the other.
Don't be prejudiced. Prejudice is this, egoing.
Because you're prejudiced by your lens.
So if I see the Hindu from my Christian lens,
I don't even realize I'm seeing it through Christian eyes,
and I say reincarnation is nonsense.
Prana and yoga doesn't make sense.
Reincarnation is all such and such, you know,
and karma, you know, and you're violating that language.
It's an act of violence.
And I think most people,
if they're being honest with themselves,
when we do go into judgment of others,
we usually end up being embarrassed.
We usually end up making a fool of ourselves
because we really understand so little.
If we are truly being honest.
So it's not serving us. It's a simple place to begin
if you were going to start a billboard campaign,
we've got some of the people in this conference were saying
that they're looking at maybe ten years.
The next ten years are going to be the critical years.
We've gotta get a move on.
That's right, and that's where Wisdom Council,
that's how it was formed.
The World Commission of these leaders
who said we have to hold this up as the highest priority
on the planet to really address our problems.
Consciousness matters.
Global Consciousness, as a commission,
joined with Ervin Laszlo, who became our co-chair,
and he was developing the Club of Budapest,
putting like-minded Nobel Laureates, and statesmen,
and celebrities together who believed in this
planetary consciousness, is what he said.
And when we joined our forces we saw
we need to connect and not divide our efforts.
And we formed the World Wisdom Council,
taking membership from both,
and bringing in new people,
and pushing it to a higher level of power,
and that really is exactly...
Having these world leaders, all of whom see,
that shifting the lens of the people of the planet,
top level of leadership, grassroots level,
all levels of culture, is the highest urgency
to address the crisis, and we have a ten year timeframe.
So media is going to be critical,
and you're very vested in media,
in fact you're starting something new.
Well yes, the reason I went into...
As a professor, it's unusual for a philosopher to,
but I saw ten years ago that the old way
of being an academic philosopher in the 21st century,
now that we have new media forms,
is not only to write books, great books if you can,
like Kant or Hegel,
my first two books were modeled after these great geniuses
whom I love and admire.
I tried to write the highest level of global reason,
those are my two books.
The first one is called
"Meditative Reason: Towards Universal Grammar",
towards this deep, unified grammar.
And the second was
"Between Worlds: The Emergence of Global Reason",
trying to lay the foundations
for the shift in global intelligence and global reason.
But I saw that you needed to reach out to massive audiences,
and that the people are ready and hungry for this,
and it has been centuries coming.
We have a short fuse.
So I felt that entering the mass media through television,
so I had a dream of bringing this incredible event
that's happening, there's a great awakening of the people
stirring on the planet in every aspect,
but it's not being shown.
And even though it's the greatest event of our time.
And so I felt that I had to move in that direction,
to become a host, and produce television.
I had a dream of ATV, Awakening TV,
just as CNN would, round the clock, around the world.
Imagine everywhere you go in the world,
you go to Tokyo, you turn on ATV and you'll see,
let's say the Dalai Lama in dialogue.
Or you'll turn it on another time,
and you'll see this integral medicine event happening
in Washinton, D.C.
Or this native spirituality with science in Albuquerque.
Around the clock, going.
And you begin to see, my god, something
is profoundly shifting on the planet,
now we can see it.
And that then begins to feed the people who said
I see what's happening.
And it'll accelerate it.
And this is underway,
you've already been, you've had your own television show
for a while, but now this new endeavor is underway,
isn't it?
It's a double endeavor, because the World Wisdom Council,
realizing the urgency of moving in this timeframe,
of trying to cultivate what's happening
in this global civilization that's emerging,
to accelerate it, we need to develop a wisdom channel,
a global wisdom channel to bring the global wisdom out
on a global scale.
Now we can do it with internet,
and I'm going to be playing a role in that,
but I was just offered to become a producer
of another channel on Cosmic Consciousness,
and so they see that I'm developing programming there,
and it's another form of ATV,
so I'm now going to be the producer of that,
and I'm going to be bringing programs all around
that are already there and uniting them
on this webcasting site.
So all of these things are happening all at the same time.
Yes they are, and I can't think of anybody
more well positioned and more articulate
and coming more from the heart than yourself
to really spearhead a lot of this media.
Well fortunately I've found so many friends
now discovering what you're doing,
and just being here in Sedona,
I've discovered already today,
one or two connections of different things happening,
and everywhere I go, that's exciting, we're not alone.
People are stirring, and to connect them
multiplies exponentially the power,
so there's almost an imperative of global consciousness,
thou shalt network.
Thou shalt network, absolutely.
It really is embodied consciousness.
If consciousness is connectivity,
and you're doing something in your own way
to promote media consciousness,
and I'm doing something and we don't talk to each other,
it's almost a derelict of our duty.
And if evolution thrives on cooperation
in general, we have to begin cooperating with each other,
across the board, in all systems.
That's right, so we're really fulfilling the law of nature
of connectivity, so that's networking.
Yes, it's networking.
And developments like internet
is a wonderful gift from the higher source.
And we of course, humans, brought it through,
but they're bringing through factors, modes of connectivity
that are part of the laws of nature and reality,
so it's an exciting time.
It's a very exciting time,
and we all feel that the,
we can all feel the clock ticking.
Anybody watching this is already feeling the clock ticking.
That's right, and everywhere I go in the world,
it's exciting to see these things accelerating,
and it's a time to connect the dots and accelerate it,
so we feel, in the World Wisdom Council,
we were daring enough, perhaps a hubris,
to announce in Tokyo that we are hereby
entering our campaign, and we're not going to stop,
to call forth a new global civilization
based upon this consciousness of global connectivity.
Thank you.
Ashok has written a couple of books
on global communications,
but as you've already picked up,
these skills apply to individuals
as much as world governments.
Just click on the link to his site below to learn more.
Until next time, thanks for watching.
(peaceful instrumental music)